Create status.md (#106)
Scalingo/developers-documentation: _database_api/status.md

---
title: Instance Status
layout: default
---

# Instance Status

--- row ---

## Get Database Instances Status

--- row ---

`GET https://$DB_API_URL/api/databases/[:database_id]/instances_status`

{:.table}
| field | type   | description                              |
| --    | --     | --                                       |
| id    | string | Instance ID                              |
| type  | string | Instance type                            |
| status| string | Instance status                          |
| role  | string | Instance role in the cluster             |

The request provides information about the instances of a given database.

> Type is about the instance type, so either "db-node" or "gateway" node. An additional service type "utility" can exist.

Reviewer: The sentence "An additional service type "utility" can exist." is cryptic. If I'm a Scalingo customer and I read this, I don't think I would be satisfied by this. The "utility" type is used for Redis Sentinel andI think we should write that here.

> Type is about the instance type, so either "db-node" or "gateway" node. An additional service type "utility" can exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type is about the instance type, so either `db-node` or `gateway` node. An additional service type `utility` can exist.
```

> Type is about the instance type, so either `db-node` or `gateway` node. An additional service type `utility` can exist (for example in the redis case, for sentinel).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type contains the type of the instance: `db-node` or `gateway`. An additional service type `utility` can exist (for example in the Redis case, for sentinel).
```

> Status is about the instance current status. The functional status is "running". Others possibilities are "booting", "restarting", "migrating", "upgrading", "stopped", "removing".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Status is about the instance current status. The functional status is `running`. Others possibilities are `booting`, `restarting`, `migrating`, `upgrading`, `stopped`, `removing`.
```

> Role is about the instance role in the cluster. For DB nodes, it will depends of the DB type. Generic values are "leader" and "follower".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Role is about the instance role in the cluster. For DB nodes, it will depend of the DB type. Generic values are "leader" and "follower".
```

> Role is about the instance role in the cluster. For DB nodes, it will depends of the DB type. Generic values are "leader" and "follower".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Role is about the instance role in the cluster. For DB nodes, it will depends of the DB type. Generic values are `leader` and `follower`.
```

> Role is about the instance role in the cluster. For DB nodes, it will depends of the DB type. Generic values are `leader` and `follower`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Role is about the instance role in the cluster. For DB nodes, possible values are `leader` and `follower`.
```

||| col |||

Example request

```sh
curl -H "Accent: application/json" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $DB_BEARER_TOKEN" \
  -X GET https://$DB_API_URL/api/my-awesome-db-1234/instances_status
```

Returns 200 OK

```json
[
  {
    "id": "5b8a26d4-160b-484a-be7f-258ae4cad80d",
    "type": "gateway",
    "status": "running",
    "role": ""
  },
  {
    "id": "a541dfb5-1fa6-40d7-87de-159ab721322c",
    "type": "db-node",
    "status": "running",
    "role": "leader"
  },
  {
    "id": "9597fb2e-b3ee-4917-bca8-d7c4333c8cc6",

>     "type": "gateway",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "type": "db-node",
```

    "status": "running",
    "role": "follower"
  },
  {
    "id": "33067baf-807c-4a9a-a966-25008945968b",

>     "type": "gateway",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "type": "db-node",
```

---

> title: Status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Instance Status
```

layout: default
---

> # Logs

Reviewer: This title seems odd...
```suggestion
# Instance Status
```

Author: Copy paste mistake

--- row ---

> ## Get database instances status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Get Database Instances Status
```

--- row ---

> `GET https://db-api.scalingo.com/dapi/databases/[:database_id]/instances_status`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`GET https://$DB_API_URL/api/databases/[:database_id]/instances_status`
```

We explain in the page "_database_api/index.md" the different values for `DB_API_URL`. Can I ask you to update all occurrences of `db-api.scalingo.com` in `_database_api` folder with this variable? It seems it has been forgotten.

{:.table}
| field | type   | description                              |
| --    | --     | --                                       |

> | id    | string | Instance Id                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| id    | string | Instance ID                              |
```

| type  | string | Instance type                            |
| status| string | Instance status                          |
| healthy| bool   | Instance healthy or not                 |
| role  | string | Instance role in the cluster             |

> The request will generate will provide information about the instances of a given database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request provides information about the instances of a given database.
```

> The request will generate will provide information about the instances of a given database

Reviewer: Can you explain in this paragraph the possible values for the `type`, `status` and `role` attribute? It's unclear just by reading the doc what it could represent

||| col |||

Example request

```sh
curl -H "Accent: application/json" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $DB_BEARER_TOKEN" \

>   -X GET https://db-api.scalingo.com/api/my-awesome-db-1234/instances_status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -X GET https://$DB_API_URL/api/my-awesome-db-1234/instances_status
```
